History is pretty clear on this. Europeans tried the competing tribes and princes approach, and it gave them centuries of nearly continuous war. That’s part of why they recoil from Trump.

A funny thing happened last month that few people in the United States seemed to notice, aside from some concerned activists: Donald Trump did something good on Twitter. On February 15, Trump tweeted a picture of himself with Lilian Tintori, the wife of imprisoned Venezuelan opposition leader Leopoldo López. Tintori has traveled the world speaking eloquently about her husband’s plight in recent years, and reportedly Sen. Marco Rubio facilitated the introduction to Trump. The fact that the president met with the wife of a political prisoner and advocated his release was commendable.

But this tweet was anomalous for at least two reasons: first, Trump rarely uses Twitter to advocate for anyone other than himself. Second, the tweet was anomalous against the backdrop of Trump’s value-free approach to what he calls an “America First” foreign policy. (In fact, in calling the American press “enemies of the people,” a charge he repeated at CPAC last week, Trump sounds more like Lopez’s jailers in the Maduro regime than the man whose imprisonment he was momentarily protesting.)

It would be good to see the new administration stand up for human rights and liberty around the world, but so far, we have little cause for hope. In his speech to Congress on Tuesday night, Trump talked about “free nations” — but not in the way that other presidents of both parties have. He said: “Free nations are the best vehicle for expressing the will of the people — and America respects the right of all nations to chart their own path.” Dictators around the world must have drawn comfort from these words. When I was a U.S. diplomat, I met with dozens of representatives of repressive regimes who proclaimed their need to chart their own path. This was usually code for “continue to enrich our elites and crackdown on members of minority religious and ethnic groups, jail journalists, and disappear political opponents.” America has historically stood for the right of individuals to chart their own path, and been clear that it is the obligation of governments to protect the rights of individuals.

Trump continued with a breathtaking abdication of American global leadership: “My job is not to represent the world. My job is to represent the United States of America.” This is a false choice — of course, the job of the president is to represent the United States of America. But for generations America has also been a beacon for the world, drawing millions to our shores because of what we stand for, because of the promise and the possibility that America represents. In the words of Reagan: “If we lose freedom here, there is no place to escape to. This is the last stand on Earth.” To be the leader of the free world is not an added task, it is an honor and a duty inextricable from the office of the presidency.

Donald Trump is no Ronald Reagan. And that’s not just because he compares unfavorably in terms of experience, moral character, and eloquence. He has also forsaken the strategic vision that Reagan brought to America’s approach to international politics.